Let's jump over to the front end
and build the actual form to request a reset.
So what I want you to do is open up the sign
in.js component.
I want you just to save that as RequestReset
in your Components folder.
Capital R, R.
Then we're gonna do a few things.
First we don't need that.
And this SIGNIN_MUTATION is going to be called
REQUEST_RESET_MUTATION.
That REQUEST_RESET_MUTATION gets passed to here.
There is no refetch query that gets passed here.
Our state only needs an email address.
The REQUEST_RESET_MUTATION only needs
an email address passed to it.
It then needs to call requestReset function,
only passing in email.
And back from that what does that return to us?
What we can tell is we can just take a look at our schema
and requestReset is a success message.
So back from that we just want a message.
Good.
Got that, saveToState, we got our mutation.
Buh buh buh buh.
Okay, when we do have the mutation
this is not gonna be called signup,
it's gonna be called reset.
Then when someone submits it we're going to prevent default
and call reset.
And then we just need to set the email to be nothing.
Change this to say request a password reset.
And we obviously don't need the password.
And the buttons should say Request Reset.
Let's try, go to our page called signup,
and let's import that.
And we now have this showing up.
The one thing we don't have is
how do we tell if it's been called or not?
And there's two options here.
First, we could either capture the success message
that comes back from this right here.
So we could say like const success
is equal to await reset.
And then we could take the success message,
set it to state, and then display it somewhere down here.
Or another way we can do it,
and this is the way we're gonna be doing it now,
is in addition to error and loading
it will also pass you a called property,
and the called property will be a Boolean
whether or not this mutation has been called yet.
So what we can do down here right below error
we'll check if there's no error.
And it's not loading.
And it's being called.
Then we're gonna have to give
ourselves a paragraph, success.
Check your email for a reset link.
Now we'll go here, request a reset.
It went, success, check your email for a reset link.
And we check our terminal here.
You see this is the ID.
It's being logged, why?
Let's flip over to our backend real quick,
open up our mutation.
You'll see that we've got the console.log,
which is what this is.
You generally don't want to console.log any of this,
especially in production,
because that way there's a potential
that you're reset token, which is sensitive,
you have to treat that as a password.
That should never be in like server logs
or things like that.
So we wanna take that out of there
so that it doesn't actually accidentally
get into the wrong hands,
<<<<<<< HEAD
and we are in good shape on the front end.
=======
And I'm just gonna open up the sell.js.
>>>>>>> fe5715794962d2fe921d28b846e9dc0896d35c74
Awesome, now we need to actually hit the reset page,
so we need to have a new page.
Let's go to our pages folder,
and I'm just gonna open up the sell.js,
resave that as reset.js.
And let's just put a paragraph,
Reset Your Password,
and we should be able to visit /reset.
There we go.
It says reset your password.
Now you see that I have,
I'm just gonna go and grab an updated token here,
and I'm gonna pass that as a resetToken,
capital T, via query param.
And let's just double check
that we can display that on the page.
So props.url.query.resetToken.
And oh, a bit of an error there.
Maybe it's just props.query.
There we go, props.query.resetToken.
That's how we have it, so what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna create another component called reset.
So go under components, make a capital R, reset.js.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and take everything
from our requestRest.js and paste it into Reset.js
'cause they are going to be fairly similar.
We wanna change this mutation here,
there's three different spots?
Yeah, three different spots that we are referencing it,
and that's just going to be called RESET_MUTATION.
That RESET_MUTATION is going to take in three arguments.
So we no longer need to take in an email,
we just need to take in the resetToken.
That's the thing that's coming in via the URL here,
and that is a string that is required.
We also wanna take in the user's new password,
which is password that is a string that is required.
And then we also wanna take in the confirmPassword,
'cause we're gonna ask them to pass a password
and then confirm it so they don't goof that up.
The reason why I am passing the confirmPassword
to the backend is that I'm building an API,
and regardless of where this API is being used,
I always wanna make sure that the user confirms the password
and we check it on the server,
and this is not just a client-side check that I wanna do.
You could do it on the client side,
but that means if you ever were to have a reset mutation
anywhere else in the application
you would also need to do that.
So I prefer to do it on the server side.
Then here we are going to change the function from reset,
requestRest to resetPassword.
And that is going to take in
these three variables that we have here,
let me see if I can just fancy copy them.
So the resetToken
without the dollar sign is going
to be equal to the variable there.
The password is going to be equal to the password,
and the confirmPassword is equal to the $confirmPassword.
Good, back from that we are gonna return a user.
So we wanna get their ID, we want their email,
and we want their name.
And that information's gonna be helpful in refetching
the currently logged in user.
Next, let's rename this Signin,
both at the export and the definition,
and we'll call that Reset.
The state of this is going to take in just a password,
which is set to nothing,
and a confirmPassword, which is also set to nothing.
We'll leave this saveToState
'cause that's gonna be helpful for us.
Then inside of our render we have this mutation
which is a RESET_MUTATION.
Our variables is not going to be this.state,
but let's actually pass in object literal.
So remove that.
The three things that are needed to pass?
Well, we need the resetToken, we need the password,
and we need the confirmPassword.
So if we go down here and run those,
it's gonna be equal to this.props.resetToken.
And remember, that's coming from the URL.
So let's double check.
Let's go back to our page, which is called resetToken,
and we're not actually rendering
it out on this page just yet.
But it is going to be passed down to this one via props.
The password is this.state.password.
And the confirm password is this.state.confirmPassword.
We can add a quick prop type for this reset token.
I'll go up to the top here, say static
propTypes is equal to.
The one thing that is getting passed in
is called a resetToken,
and it's going to be propTypes.string.isRequired.
And we need to import propTypes.
So we've got our mutation.
We are passing our variables successfully.
Inside this field set now we are going to
not say request a reset password reset,
but we're going to say Reset Your Password.
We'll have our error, that is good.
We can get rid of this check here where error loading.
So remove that.
We no longer need the email
because it's going to be a password.
So I'm just going to change this over to password.
Change this to password.
So label for password.
Type as well password, name is password,
placeholder is password.
Value, this.state.password.
And onChange, saveToState, good.
And then we need to just duplicate that
for the confirmPassword.
So, Confirm Your Password.
I'll change all of these to, what did we call it in state?
ConfirmPassword.
And then we'll change the button that says
Reset Your Password.
I think that's good.
Let's get it showing up on this page here.
So we'll go back to our actual reset page
and import that component.
So, and we can actually just reuse this to Reset.
And then we can go ahead and use the Reset component.
And of course we need to pass the resetToken as a prop,
'cause remember, we're expecting it to be passed in.
That's why we went ahead and did a propType there.
And we can pass it in by saying props.query.resetToken.
Let's go ahead and give it a shot.
So when we submit this form it is going to call
the onSubmit, which will, in turn, prevent the default.
It will run our mutation, which is called reset.
And oh, actually, we do not need this.
The setState actually can be changed to password.
We can reset that and confirmPassword is nothing.
So let's see if it worked.
I'm gonna change my new password to wes,
and oh-ho, a bit of an issue there.
The type is not confirmPassword.
The type is still password.
There we go.
And ready, cross your fingers, it might not work,
probably not.
Baaa.
Shoot, this token is either invalid,
oh, you know why, it's 'cause I had lunch.
I had lunch in between.
So that's the problem.
But what we do need to do is go ahead
and make a new token for ourselves.
So yours might have worked, but let's hold on a second.
I'm gonna go ahead and make a new token.
So go back to that signup page.
Put my email in.
Request a reset.
Good, obviously we haven't hooked up or email yet,
so I need to go either into the console
or into my database to get that token.
So we'll do that now.
So we're gonna go back and swap out that reset token.
Good.
Now I'm gonna change my password to wes.
Reset your password, boom, looks like it worked.
I don't really know if it worked
because we didn't provide any success message.
But what is actually gonna happen is if it worked properly
it's actually gonna log us in.
So if we go ahead and sign out here
and try to sign in it looks like
we are immediately signed in there,
and that's the kind of same idea I wanna have
when you request a reset.
So how do we do that?
Well the answer to that is we use something
called a refetch query in our mutation.
So if we open up our user component,
and you'll see that we have this CURRENT_USER_QUERY,
we actually want to refetch the current user query
so that if the person has changed,
if the currently logged in person has changed,
then Apollo will automatically go back to the server
and refetch who is currently signed in.
It's exactly what we wanna do.
So we'll go back to our reset.js,
go up to the top, and we'll import the,
what was it called?
CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
And the reason why we can import it
is because if you go to the bottom of user.js
you'll see that we've exported it as a named export.
So import current user query from the User component.
And then we can go down to our mutation here,
and we can say refetch queries is equal to,
and it's an array of queries
'cause it could be multiple.
And the query that we want to refetch
is going to be called the CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
So what this means is that when this mutation
has successfully been called,
are there other queries that should be refetched
and refreshed of their data.
And of course, we want to refresh the CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
So, let's try the whole sort of roundtrip once more.
Gonna reset my password.
Gonna go here and refresh the data.
Gonna open it up.
Gonna grab my token.
Gonna go to the reset page and pass in my new token.
You see, oh, make sure that you're signed out.
And then I'm gonna reset my new password.
Run it and bam you see that this automatically changed.
I find that that's probably the best way
to show the user that it worked,
because you're automatically signed in.
You could put some sort of success message here as well,
but I find that just clearing it.
You could also just route to the homepage
and show the user that they're signed in.
That's really, really nice.
You see that there's no refreshing of the page
or telling the user to check their email or something
or to relog in because if they have this token
there's no reason why you couldn't
just immediately log them in,
and that's exactly what we're doing here.
So that whole reset flow seems to be working.
The missing piece that we have now
is that I have to go into the database
and copy this token right here.
What we're gonna do in the next video
is actually email this token to the user
so that we can confirm that
if they are resetting their password
then they must have access to that email address,
otherwise, they shouldn't be allowed to do so.